# magicAbsorb
<div class="search_terms" style="display: none">magicabsorb</div>

<!---
	This file is autogenerated. Do not edit this file manually. Your changes will be ignored.
	More information: https://github.com/MWSE/MWSE/tree/master/docs
-->

This event is triggered before a magic absorption check. It allows changing the absorption chance.

Each spell absorption effect active on a target will roll separately; the absorb chances are independent. This event also occurs once per effect in a spell, so a multi-effect spell may trigger this multiple times.

```lua
--- @param e magicAbsorbEventData
local function magicAbsorbCallback(e)
end
event.register(tes3.event.magicAbsorb, magicAbsorbCallback)
```

!!! tip
	This event can be filtered based on the **`target`** event data.

!!! tip
	This event supports blocking by setting `e.block` to `true` or returning `false`. Blocking the event prevents vanilla behavior from happening. For example, blocking an `equip` event prevents the item from being equipped.

!!! tip
	An event can be claimed by setting `e.claim` to `true`, or by returning `false` from the callback. Claiming the event prevents any lower priority callbacks from being called.

## Event Data

* `absorbChance` (number): The % chance that the magic is absorbed. May be modified.
* `absorbEffect` ([tes3activeMagicEffect](../types/tes3activeMagicEffect.md)): *Read-only*. The specific spell absorption effect being tested. This is a `tes3activeMagicEffect` instead of a more common magic instance. You can lookup the magic source instance or effect instance with `tes3activeMagicEffect` accessors.
* `effectIndex` (number): *Read-only*. The effect index into the `source` effect list that is being tested against.
* `mobile` ([tes3mobileActor](../types/tes3mobileActor.md)): *Read-only*. The mobile actor that may absorb the spell.
* `source` ([tes3alchemy](../types/tes3alchemy.md), [tes3enchantment](../types/tes3enchantment.md), [tes3spell](../types/tes3spell.md)): *Read-only*. The magic source.
* `sourceInstance` ([tes3magicSourceInstance](../types/tes3magicSourceInstance.md)): *Read-only*. The unique instance of the magic source.
* `target` ([tes3reference](../types/tes3reference.md)): *Read-only*. The actor that may absorb the spell.

## Examples

!!! example "Example: Reduce spell absorption chance for the player"

	```lua
	local function onMagicAbsorb(e)
	    if e.target == tes3.player then
	        e.absorbChance = math.max(0, e.absorbChance - 25)
	    end
	end
	event.register(tes3.event.magicAbsorb, onMagicAbsorb)

	```


## Related events

[absorbedMagic](./absorbedMagic.md){ .md-button }[spellResist](./spellResist.md){ .md-button }[spellResisted](./spellResisted.md){ .md-button }

